AWS Cloud Practitioners, welcome back to the championship chase of the database! In the relational corner, engineered to remove undifferentiated heavy lifting from your database administrators with automatic high availability and recovery provided. You control the data, you control the schema, you control the network. You are running Amazon RDS. Yes, Yeah. 

The NoSQL corner, using a key value pair that requires no advanced schema, able to operate as a global database at the touch of a button. It has massive throughput. It has petabyte scale potential. It has granular API access. It is Amazon DynamoDB. 

Head to head. Each database class is engineered to exactly enhance exciting existential environments you envision. Which database will ultimately be victorious in this new world knock out night fight? Once again, the winner will depend on your use case. 

Round one, Relational databases have been around since the moment businesses started using computers. Being able to build complex analysis of data spread across multiple tables, is the strength of any relational system. In this round, you have a sales supply chain management system that you have to analyze for weak spots. Using RDS is the clear winner here because it's built for business analytics, because you need complex relational joins. Round one easily goes to RDS. 

Round two, the use case, pretty much anything else. Now that sounds weird, but despite what your standalone legacy database vendor would have you believe, most of what people use expensive relational databases for, has nothing to do with complex relationships. In fact, a lot of what people put into these databases ends up just being look-up tables. 

For this round, imagine you have an employee contact list: names, phone numbers, emails, employee IDs. Well, this is all single table territory. I could use a relational database for this, but the things that make relational databases great, all of that complex functionality, creates overhead and lag and expense if you're not actually using it. This is where non-relational databases, Dynamo DB, delivers the knockout punch. By eliminating all the overhead, DynamoDB allows you to build powerful, incredibly fast databases where you don't need complex joint functionality. DynamoDB comes out the undisputed champion. 

Once again, the winner depends on your individual workload. Each service is the right service for specific needs. And once you understand what you need, you will know again, which service is your champion.